[EDU-6322] refactor: nodejs compatibility docs (#1563)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/devtools/azion-edge-runtime/compatibility/node-polyfills/http.mdx

---
title: Azion Runtime and Node.js API compatibility
description: >-
  Explore the compatibility and integration of Node.js APIs and polyfills with
  the Azion Edge Runtime, enhancing JavaScript execution in edge environments.
permalink: /documentation/products/azion-edge-runtime/compatibility/node/http/
meta_tags: >-
  Azion Edge, Node.js compatibility, JavaScript runtime, Node APIs, polyfills,
  Node.js polyfills, runtime APIs, Edge Runtime, edge computing, http
namespace: documentation_products_azion_runtime_node_http
menu_namespace: runtimeMenu
---

The http library in Node.js is a core module that provides utilities for creating HTTP servers and clients. It allows developers to handle HTTP requests and responses, making it essential for building web applications and services.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```javascript
/**

>  * An Example of using the Node.js HTTP API in a Azion Edge Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * An example of using the Node.js HTTP API in an Azion Edge Function.
```

 * Support:
 * - Extended by library `stream-http`
 * @module runtime-apis/nodejs/http/main
 * @example
 * // Execute with Azion Bundler:
 * npx edge-functions build
 * npx edge-functions dev
 */
import http from "node:http";

/**

>  * An example of using the Node.js HTTP API in a Azion Edge Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * An example of using the Node.js HTTP API in an Azion Edge Function.
```

Reviewer: passar pente fino para evitar o typo em outros exemplos

 * @param {*} event
 * @returns {Promise<Response>}
 */
const main = async (event) => {
  // this is a workaround to make the http module work in the browser
  const protocol = event.request.headers.get("x-forwarded-proto") || "http";
  globalThis.location = {
    protocol,
  };
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    http
      .request("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/1", (res) => {
        console.log("Got response: " + res.statusCode);
        let data = "";

        res.on("data", (chunk) => {
          data += chunk;
        });

        res.on("end", () => {
          console.log("No more data in response.");
          console.log("BODY: " + data);
          resolve(new Response(JSON.stringify(data)));
        });

        res.on("error", (err) => {
          console.error(err);
          reject(new Response("Error occurred"));
        });
      })
      .end();
  });
};

export default main;
```

:::note

> The `_connectionListene`, `createServer`, `get`, `request`, `setMaxIdleHTTPParsers`, `validateHeaderName` and `validateHeaderValue` APIs are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_connectionListene`, `createServer`, `get`, `request`, `setMaxIdleHTTPParsers`, `validateHeaderName`, and `validateHeaderValue` APIs aren't supported.
```
